# Variables and Constants

Variables are used to store data that your program can manipulate.

Constants are similar but are used for values that you know won't change.

To create a variable, you'll specify a variable data type proceeded by the equal sign, then the value, and lastly ending with a semi-colon (;) - examples are below.

## Data Types

A data type in programming is specifies what type of value a variable holds such as a number, text, or true/false values. Operations can also be performed such as if it's a variable that stores numbers, if you wanted to add two numbers, multiply, divide, subtract, etc. you're able to assign a variable to the calculation and then the variable would hold the calculated value.

## Arduino Programming Language and respective Data Types used

Arduino uses a programming language based on C/C++. The Arduino programming language has a few different data types:

1. int - Represents integer values. It's used for numbers without a decimal point. For example, int count = 10;

2. float - For floating-point numbers, or numbers with a decimal. Useful for more precise measurements like float temperature = 36.5;

3. char - Stands for 'character' and is used to store single characters like letters or symbols. For instance, char letter = 'A';

4. String - Used for storing a sequence of characters or text. For example, String name = "Arduino";

5. boolean - Represents true or false values, often used in conditional statements. For example, boolean isOn = true;

6. byte - Represents true or false values, often used in conditional statements. For example, boolean isOn = true;

### Examples:

```
int count = 10;
float temperature = 36.5;
char letter = 'A';
String name = "Arduino";
boolean isOn = false;

// using const
const String name = "Arduino"
```

## Practice Problems

### Problem 1:

Create two variables: age as an integer and name as a String. Also, define a constant for the maximum age limit as MAX_AGE set to 100.

### Problem 2:

Declare a float variable temperature and initialize it with a value. Then, declare a constant PI and set it to 3.14159.

### Problem 3:

Create a boolean variable isLEDOn and initialize it to false. Also, define a constant LED_PIN set to the pin number where your LED is connected (e.g., 13).
