# Control Structures

Control structures in programming are instructions that decide the order in which other pieces of code are executed.

They control the flow of a program, allowing the program to make decisions, repeat actions, and jump to different parts of the code based on certain conditions.

There are 3 control structures:

1. if/else statements - allow your program to make decisions
2. for loops - repeat a block of code a set number of times
3. while loops - keeps running as long as a condition is true

### Examples:

```
float temperature = 36.5;

// if/else statement
if (temperature >= 37.0) {
  // code to execute if condition is true
  Serial.println("It's getting warmer");
} else {
  // code to execute if condition is false
  Serial.println("It's not warm enough yet");
}
```

The if/else statement checks if the temperature variable has a value that's greater than or equal to 37.0, if it is then it executes a line of code that prints "It's getting warmer", if it's not greater than or equal to, it moves down to the "else" statement and prints "It's not warm enough yet".

The "if" statement only executes if the statement is true, otherwise it moves onto the next statement. You can also have "if/else if/else" statements where if the first "if" statement is false, the code will move down to the "else if" statement, if that's also false, it'll move on to the "else statement".

The code executes at the first true statement.

```
if (condition1) {
    // execute code here
} else if (condition2) {
    // execute code here
} else {

}

```

```
// for loop
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  // code to repeat 5 times
}
```

The above code starts at a count of 0, then increments the count by 1 every time the loop is executed until the count reaches 5. We typically use "i" as a convention that started in programming and stands for "index" or "iterator" - in reality you could write whatever you wanted but it's best practice to use "i".

```
int count = 0;

while (count < 5) {
  Serial.println("The current count is: ");
  Serial.println(count);
  count++;
}
```

The above code continously executes until the count reaches 5 - it prints the line "The current count is: " and then the current count until the "white" loop is no longer true.

### Notes:

Serial.println() is a built-in function used to send data to the serial port which is then displayed in the Serial Monitor of the Arduino IDE

## Practice Problems:

### Problem 1

Write an if/else statement that checks if a variable score is greater than or equal to 75. Print "Pass" if true, else print "Fail".

### Problem 2

Create a for loop that prints numbers from 1 to 5.

### Problem 3

Write a while loop that counts down from 3 to 1 and then prints "Go!".
